There were about five of them.
Where were they from?
Maltese lads.
Oh, right.
You picked them up where?
Yeah, because they were building a regiment up there.
And you see the regiment was only...
Because my friend who lived in Tipperary Gloucestershire,
well, he's a bit of a silly one,
I used to say, you actually want to join up
and make a man of yourself.
Next thing I knew, in 1954, I was with him.
He was only...
What are you doing here?
Was in camp there and he's coming.
He said, I've done what you said.
He come to my 80th birthday.
Down just after.
So where did you go from Malta?
It was Busan.
I think it was Busan.
What was this trouble in the Suez?
What was the trouble you had in the Suez?
Oh, all along the banks of it,
you saw the Suez, you know, gerrym and all that.
And the...
I don't know where he was, I can't remember,
some officer said, get your weapons, you know,
and we're over there waiting to see
if there's going to be any trouble.
That's what happened.
So that was about the time...
Oh, that would have been just before the Suez crisis,
wouldn't it, the year before, if I expect?
Oh, it was before.
That was before, that was in 1956, wasn't it?
Yeah.
You went to Busan then?
Yeah, well, I was supposed to go to Suez,
but I didn't get there.
You know, I went to Busan.
I got off the boat, right?
There were several of us got off.
And that's where there was personnel, Korean, not Chinese.
And I remember him saying now,
why do you come here to kill us?
And we said, we aren't coming here to kill nobody.
That's a fact.
And I reckon that's where that picture come from.
Well, he was only out there overnight, you know.
And the ship was then, time to say,
oh, we was back down to Japan then.
And what the ship was doing was picking up personnel,
which is due to go back home.
So, they never got off at Mombasa.
The ship went on.
Dropped us at Mombasa.
We went all the way up by train, right away, up to,
well, at Nairobi.
And we picked up all our luggage and taken to GoGo.
The camp.
It's dark. Now you go on the call.
If you want, yes, because I was willing with a major sort
because I was a barber as well, and I used to cut all their hair.
And I used to cut his hair as well.
One day, they had this big ballroom going on.
This is in Kenya, the camp.
And you'd be surprised, the bus that comes in there
with women. It was incredible.
And these officers, I think, I guess we did.
Oh, wow. You went mad.
I said, don't worry.
This is honest truth, I said,
because I'd done this for the sergeant as well,
Sergeant Miles, is burn the cork, piece of cork.
You just go like that and just rub it like that.
I said, hey, have a look.
Oh, God, that's honest.
Yeah. Well, I got that from my father
in the First World War.
They used to do that, burn cork and all that,
to cover up any wear and tear on the harness,
from harness on the horses.
Because they used to get a lot of bollocking for that,
didn't they?
And quite rightly.
Yeah.
Don't hurt horses.
Yeah, but I think it was some Greece
and they just rubbed it in.